README.md, before:

# Online Meetups

The WiMLDS guide to running online meetups.


### How to run an online meetup

1. Pick a time and date for your online meetup just like an in-person meetup. Use meetup.com as usual to plan the event.
2. If you use a tool with a participant limit, you will have to limit attendance via meetup.com RSVPs and deliver the web conference URL privately to participants only. Alternatively, you can just post the link publicly on your meetup event page and have a “first-come, first-served” policy.  For example, if you use Zoom, the free meetings have a limit of 100 participants.
3. Choose a format/topic for your meetup: talks, co-working/hangout, networking, code workshop, etc.
4. Choose a web conferencing platform (see below for options).
    Some things to consider when evaluating different platforms:
    - You might want something with an option for participants to group chat with each other.
    - Should your participants be muted throughout presentations or do you want anyone to be able to speak at any time?
    - If it's the latter, you might want that to be regulated by a moderator. Some tools will let you virtually raise your hand before speaking. You may also want a combination of both options.
5. Think about how to enforce the Code of Conduct in your chat spaces.
6. Consider whether you can record the presentations and/or the hangout.
   - If you decide to record, it's a good idea to seek verbal consent from participants and only then upload the video to YouTube or other social media.
   If your speaker can record their talk, they can answer questions and participate in the conversation while people are viewing it. Reference: https://twitter.com/lunivore/status/1237383325045710848   
   - Official organization accounts should be used for sharing content on these platforms.  
   - We recommend having more than one organizer join. Extra organizers can help individuals resolve technical issues without disrupting the general flow for the rest of the audience. They can also monitor and moderate the chat for passive aggressive communication. It is recommended to add emojis to help others pick up context clues.
7. If you are unable to find speakers, you can still host a meetup! Consider co-viewing conference talks by women and gender minorities, and moderating a discussion. Alternatively, the group can take an online learning course together and
have virtual study sessions around it.


## Tools

### Zoom

- **Free version**:  Meetings can only last for 40 mins (though you can create several URLs and switch over each 40 minutes).  You can host up to 100 participants.
- Pricing for paid versions: https://zoom.us/pricing
- If you work for a company that uses Zoom and you have a paid/corporate account, that is one way of getting around the 100 participant or 40 minute limit.
- Companies, instead of hosting, could offer to virtually “host” (sponsor) the meetup by providing a corporate Zoom account that you can use with fewer limitations. 
- On a paid account, you can start a meeting and then make another person a co-host which gives them some control (for example, if a company donates their pro account for you to use, they can make you a co-host so you can control things like breakout rooms).
- How to schedule a meeting with Zoom: https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/206476093-Getting-Started-with-Breakout-Rooms
- Getting started with breakout rooms: https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/206476093-Getting-Started-with-Breakout-Rooms
- Very good guide to read before hosting your first Zoom meeting: https://blog.zoom.us/wordpress/2020/03/20/keep-the-party-crashers-from-crashing-your-zoom-event/
- More resources: https://twitter.com/margootjeg/status/1238173760034721792

### Webex

- **Free version**: Meetings can last as long as needed. They have a 100 participant limit.
If you work for a company that uses Webex and have a corporate account, you can get around these limits.
- [Pricing](https://www.webex.com/pricing/index.html)
- Some additional [resources](https://twitter.com/andrewheiss/status/1238165644941680641) on using Webex.

### Other services for video-conferencing you can explore:

- [Jitsi](https://meet.jit.si) is an open-source alternative for Zoom.
- [Google Hangouts](hangouts.google.com) supports group calls of up to 10 participants.
Similar to Zoom & Webex, with a corporate GSuite account you could get around the participant limit and add up to 250 participants to a call.

## General tips for teaching online

- [Blogpost](https://boristats.netlify.com/2020/03/12/2020-03-12-teaching-covid19/)


## Resources from Meetup.com

- [Meetup event policies and the coronavirus (COVID-19)](https://help.meetup.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041040931)
- [How to Host an Online Event on Meetup](https://help.meetup.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040609112)

Commit message:

Updating Zoom recommended articles in README

README.md, after:

# Online Meetups

The WiMLDS guide to running online meetups.


### How to run an online meetup

1. Pick a time and date for your online meetup just like an in-person meetup. Use meetup.com as usual to plan the event.
2. If you use a tool with a participant limit, you will have to limit attendance via meetup.com RSVPs and deliver the web conference URL privately to participants only. Alternatively, you can just post the link publicly on your meetup event page and have a “first-come, first-served” policy.  For example, if you use Zoom, the free meetings have a limit of 100 participants.
3. Choose a format/topic for your meetup: talks, co-working/hangout, networking, code workshop, etc.
4. Choose a web conferencing platform (see below for options).
    Some things to consider when evaluating different platforms:
    - You might want something with an option for participants to group chat with each other.
    - Should your participants be muted throughout presentations or do you want anyone to be able to speak at any time?
    - If it's the latter, you might want that to be regulated by a moderator. Some tools will let you virtually raise your hand before speaking. You may also want a combination of both options.
5. Think about how to enforce the Code of Conduct in your chat spaces.
6. Consider whether you can record the presentations and/or the hangout.
   - If you decide to record, it's a good idea to seek verbal consent from participants and only then upload the video to YouTube or other social media.
   If your speaker can record their talk, they can answer questions and participate in the conversation while people are viewing it. Reference: https://twitter.com/lunivore/status/1237383325045710848   
   - Official organization accounts should be used for sharing content on these platforms.  
   - We recommend having more than one organizer join. Extra organizers can help individuals resolve technical issues without disrupting the general flow for the rest of the audience. They can also monitor and moderate the chat for passive aggressive communication. It is recommended to add emojis to help others pick up context clues.
7. If you are unable to find speakers, you can still host a meetup! Consider co-viewing conference talks by women and gender minorities, and moderating a discussion. Alternatively, the group can take an online learning course together and
have virtual study sessions around it.


## Tools

### Zoom

- **Free version**:  Meetings can only last for 40 mins (though you can create several URLs and switch over each 40 minutes).  You can host up to 100 participants.
- Pricing for paid versions: https://zoom.us/pricing
- If you work for a company that uses Zoom and you have a paid/corporate account, that is one way of getting around the 100 participant or 40 minute limit.
- Companies, instead of hosting, could offer to virtually “host” (sponsor) the meetup by providing a corporate Zoom account that you can use with fewer limitations. 
- On a paid account, you can start a meeting and then make another person a co-host which gives them some control (for example, if a company donates their pro account for you to use, they can make you a co-host so you can control things like breakout rooms).
- Recommended how-to articles: [How to schedule a meeting with Zoom](https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/201362413-Scheduling-meetings), [Getting started with breakout rooms](https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/206476093-Getting-Started-with-Breakout-Rooms), [Keep the party crashers from crashing your zoom event](https://blog.zoom.us/wordpress/2020/03/20/keep-the-party-crashers-from-crashing-your-zoom-event/)
- More resources: https://twitter.com/margootjeg/status/1238173760034721792

### Webex

- **Free version**: Meetings can last as long as needed. They have a 100 participant limit.
If you work for a company that uses Webex and have a corporate account, you can get around these limits.
- [Pricing](https://www.webex.com/pricing/index.html)
- Some additional [resources](https://twitter.com/andrewheiss/status/1238165644941680641) on using Webex.

### Other services for video-conferencing you can explore:

- [Jitsi](https://meet.jit.si) is an open-source alternative for Zoom.
- [Google Hangouts](hangouts.google.com) supports group calls of up to 10 participants.
Similar to Zoom & Webex, with a corporate GSuite account you could get around the participant limit and add up to 250 participants to a call.

## General tips for teaching online

- [Blogpost](https://boristats.netlify.com/2020/03/12/2020-03-12-teaching-covid19/)


## Resources from Meetup.com

- [Meetup event policies and the coronavirus (COVID-19)](https://help.meetup.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041040931)
- [How to Host an Online Event on Meetup](https://help.meetup.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040609112)
